to the United Nations let's listen in we
are
all United in the United Nations and we
stand by them by
them we as Arab group as you see all of
us United
outraged by this massacre that has taken
place committed by the Israeli
forces against the
hospital the Lutheran
Hospital in uh the Gaza
Strip in which according to the initial
figures about 500 civilians have been
torn
apart and
massacred in this outrageous illegal
crime committed by the Israeli forces
against our people in the Gaza Strip we
condemn this
uh action in the strongest possible
terms and we hold Israel responsible for
this massacre this crime and those
responsible for this crime should face
Justice and should face
accountability and should be you know a
punishment uh uh rising to the level of
this crime committed against our people
to be faced by them we as an Arab group
demand immediately a ceasefire because
the continuation of the war it means
killing more Palestinians every moment
had the security Council shouldered its
responsib responsibility
yesterday and stopped the fighting
yesterday stopped the war the aggression
the crime against our people
yesterday then we would have been able
to have those those 500 killed still
alive and with us so the security
Council has to wake up and we will not
relent nor spare any
effort that will uh stop us from going
after the security Council and all
component of the UN including the
Secretary General not only to condemn
this crime and they should but also to
have an immediate ceasefire to save
lives to save lives of Palestinians and
to save lives across the board uh this
is what we wanted to convey to you and I
express my gratitude and thanks to my
brothers the ambassadors of the Arab
countries and maybe we have others who
might be watching us and expressing
solidarity with us other ambassadors we
thank them for this effort we have to
create a massive outrage in the United
Nations against those criminals who have
committed this massacre today against uh
injured uh uh and sick individuals in
that hospital that led to massacring
them in that heinous crime and we should
go after those from the Israeli side who
committed this crime to face the justice
and accountability and that they should
pay the price for such crimes this is
what we want to convey to you I think
that my colleagues maybe they want to
say anything the floor is open for them
and their
questions establish an international
investigation committee and will you
work on opening the border crossing do
you have any other options than
the security Council we will
not spare the security Council they
should shoulder their responsibility
because they are responsible for the
security it is a war that is threatening
peace and Security in the Middle East
and maybe in the world the security
Council should
not stay or remain silent they should
shoulder their
responsibility the ambassador of Russia
have asked for an open session within
the United Nations so that everyone in
the security Council and all the others
who will be able to speak to voice their
condemnations against this massacre and
the security Council should shoulder its
responsibility and stop the aggression
against the Palestinian people the
Israeli Prime Minister today said and I
quote the intelligence from multiple
sources said that it's the Islamic Jihad
is responsible for the failed rocket
launch your your response he is a liar
his uh spokesperson in digital
spokesperson tweeted that Israel did the
hit thinking that there is around this
Hospital a base for Hamas and then he
deleted that tweet we have a copy of
that tweet and talal can share with you
that Tweet now they change the story to
try to blame the Palestinians it is a
lie and they the Israeli spokesperson of
the army about a week ago made a
statement in which he said Evacuate the
hospitals the hospitals are Target and
in fact they hit one Hospital a week ago
so they their intentions is evacuate or
hospitals will be hit and they are
responsible for that crime and they
cannot fabricate stories to deal with it
Ambassador Ambassador I'll ask I'll ask
you English
I'll ask you in English for the benefit
of all of us uh now uh Abu Mazin has
cancelled his participation in The
Summit in Jordan and returned back to
ramala uh just minutes ago uh the forign
minister of and Deputy Prime Minister of
Jordan uh has announced the cancellation
of the full Summit uh
uh your reaction to the cancellation of
the four uh four parts uh Summit in
Jordan and by the way uh the concerning
the bombing of the hospital Israel has
warned all the hospitals in the area
last week that they will bomb them if
they don't evacuate and many managers of
these hospitals have already told the
Israelis they have about 600 people in
intensive care and they can't move them
they have no fuel to move them even uh
so uh and they hit the same Hospital a
small hit last week right so so to say
today that it's and and the confession
of of Han naftali who's a digital
spokesman of Netanyahu on Twitter that
they hit it because they thought it was
a base for Hamas and then he deleted it
after the cooking of the story of
hasbalah
Rocket all this really point out to the
guilt why do you delete a a a a a a
tweet confessing to the bombing of the
hospital if if if if
if islami did that so uh we we we'd like
to have you really your comments on the
cancellation of the foresight Summit in
Amman and the fabrication story you're
correct I have nothing to add to it on
uh the uh cancellation of uh uh the
summit first of all president Abbas uh
said that he cannot attend and he uh
went back to ramala and I expect him
that he is speaking to uh uh giving a
national speech as we speak now it might
be in your uh uh you know uh in your
outfit you know Al Arabia and Al jazer
and all of them he is talking to the
Palestinian people and to everyone as we
speak I believe and he asked for a
meeting for the Palestinian leadership
so that's what he did I understand that
our Egyptian Brothers canceled the
hotels of their this today after this
massacre therefore they canceled the
participation but I think my brother
will speak to that yes and then of
course our Jordanian Brothers said that
it can we cannot have a summit
uh with these conditions we don't know
what the other President Biden is still
going there or not but he canceled
President Biden too okay so that because
the only thing that would make sense if
he made ceasefire immediately and I'm
coming to imple to force the
implementation of ceasefire I don't know
what he said but the summit has been
cancelled but my brothers from Jordan
and Egypt
can say yes in a minute please just you
know that horrible uh uh crime and
attack against the hospital uh in in
Gaza earlier today is a stark reminder
of everyone that what what we have been
warning against to happen we have been
telling everyone that we're we're
fearful that violations of international
humanitarian law is going to happen we
have seen that before and we have warned
everyone to uphold uh their
responsibilities we have asked the
security Council to uphold its
responsibilities uh uh uh the permanent
members have a specific especially those
who have special ties here or there
there there should no there should be no
conditional uh support ever we we're
asking everyone for for having a
ceasefire immediately and so on and uh
uh speaking now to the issue of of the
summit Cairo is hosting the summit as
scheduled we're speaking about the Cairo
Summit next Saturday where parties in
the region uh permanent uh uh P5 are are
invited and are gathered the Secretary
General has confirmed his participation
with the view to seek uh uh to address
the humanitarian aspect of the outgoing
war and how to to to uh put it to a
ceasefire and as well a very serious
attempt to have a political Horizon to
address the fundamentals of the whole
issue this is what I wanted to say and
of course I add my voice to to
Ambassador Riyad Mansour in the issue of
the accountability there is there is no
party above international law no party
ever would be as much as the Arab
ministers did condemn uh uh uh attacks
on on civilians the same
applies Whoever has perpetrated that
that horrible crime of today should be
hold accountable and and we we work to
that end and we're we we're hopeful that
the council will be up to the
responsibility concerning The Summit in
Egypt can there be uh uh continuous um
uh humanitarian assistance to the
Palestinians in Gaza without a full and
and permanent and durable ceasefire
we're we're we're we're engaging on on
extensive talks trying to to reach a
modality whereby humanitarian access and
and humanitarian corridors will be be
secured with having sufficient space of
course for humanitarian ceasefire no no
humanitarian access would happen but
that is
linked to to some other issues that has
to do with with uh uh the hostages and
and and so on and those aspects that has
to do with foreigners in Gaza but we're
working around the clock and Egypt is
taking that responsibility very
seriously and we're hopeful we continue
to hope that this would happen soon
thank you very
uh thank you colleagues for for coming
uh as a chair of the Arab group for this
month I would to like to reflect the
common Arab position that we are uh
condemning this massacre that took place
against innocent civilians the figures
now are talking about 8 to 900 civilians
uh sick and wounded the medical facil
facility the medical personnel all
perished in this hyen attack perpetrated
by Israel uh we call on the security
Council to assume its
responsibility and call for a ceasefire
unconditional ceasefire we also would
like to see those who have committed
such a crime uh under international law
such a heinous crime to be brought to
justice for de decades and decades
Israel has and it's uh the perpetrators
of the is in the Israeli military and
political leadership who committed these
actions were enjoyed impunity not a
single one faced Justice this has to
change and this is our common position
as an Arab group we think it is very
important that we concentrate the
security Council concentrate on
ceasefire and to allow humanitarian
medical access into Gaza and also at the
same time stop any Mass transfer of the
population which is one of the intent of
those who perpetrated it is to induce
this mass movement you heard all of you
have heard the Israeli officials in the
past few days and past week who called
on people to move to the South and that
the facilities the medical facilities
have to be evacuated waited this is a
message and it's not the first time that
Israel resorts to this kind of message
to induce the mass displacement of
population it happened again and again
and again and it will continue to happen
if the International Community does not
stop
it importance of accountability what's
the importance of the Arab unity and
have one stance and one position to uh
ask demand ceasefire and stop the
aggression is there any possibility to
have an action or a one United Arab
position
to for accountability regarding
accountability as Palestine State and as
well other Arab countries we were able
after many efforts to start
investigations in those crimes that have
been committed against the Palestinians
by Israel including the ongoing War
crime which is the occupation as well as
the crime of
2014 when
Israel perpetrated several crimes
against Palestinians now the crime is
bigger and the scope is bigger as we've
seen today in the massacre of the
hospital so what is required now is to
be to pressure the ICC so that they can
expedite the investigations that are
still
ongoing there is another
side which is the violation of
international law and all the related
details that are that were raised by
during questions asked by the
International
crime court and many Arab countries have
presented several
reports and we are
now finalizing the second
re we are finalizing the reports that
will be sent to the international
court and this will be finalized within
a
week after that we will wait from the
international
Court to set up the time and the
date so this mechanism is ongoing and we
would like to expedite the
process and we want a larger
participation from all the Arab
countries and our
brothers especially when the second
round will start when the court will
announce the dates and who can
participate as actually has the Arab
Arab this question for the Arab group
the United States is the only country
that was the Palestinian ambassador to
the United Nations again demanding for a
ceasefire so far on day 12 of this war
those pleas have been ignored they
condemned the attack